# Marketing-Analysis
## 1. Business Context
Pernalonga is a supermarket chain which finds itself in a spot where it is reliant on promotions to drive sales, as over 30% of sales derive from promotions. Currently, the majority of the promotions at Pernalonga are in-store promotions. The problem associated with in-store promotions is that they offer temporary price reductions to customers regardless of their need. Hence, Pernalonga is losing part of its revenue by offering promotions to those who would be willing to purchase the items at full price. Because Pernalonga does not have a strong or thorough marketing campaign, they are leaving money on the table by not effectively targeting stores, customers, or products with their promotions. Thus, as the consulting team working with Pernalonga, we will help them better understand their customers and how to develop a strong marketing campaign that will boost revenue through the use of segmentation.
## 2. Product Segmentation
In order to segment the products using k-means in a way other than simply using product categories and subcategories, we first selected the best-fit attributes which can explain the characteristics and distinctions among the products. Furthermore, it is important to note CT and KG are different units, with KG measuring the weight of vegetables, meats and fruit while CT just represents each countable unit in a pre-packaged item. That is to say, we have to differentiate products between each unit in individual clusters. To begin, we calculated the mean unit price. Additionally, it’s meaningful to take product discounts into consideration. If one product has large discount ratio as well as high discount frequency, it could reveal that this product is either a perishable item close to its expiration date or just an unpopular product that doesn’t sell well at full price. Last but not least, we include the dates in the analysis to measure the ratio of transaction that take place on the weekend. If the product sales on weekends occupied a large proportion compared to weekdays, it could turn out that these products are preferred in leisure time on the weekends. 
In the “CT” unit data set, we found that weekend was an unnecessary addition to the model and removed it. By excluding the “weekend” attribute, we can get the plot (x-axis is k clusters, y value is WCSS) drawn by elbow method as well as silhouette_score. This shows us that our best k for CT products is k=4. On the other hand, the inclusion of “weekend” attributes worked better in clustering model for products sold in KG. Here, the best k is k=3. Below are the elbow plots previously mentioned. 

From the statistics drawn by the CT plot, there are some interesting points worth the attention. For the second clustering, the mean price of the products is expensive compared to others while the discount rate and frequency are very high. We can see that the main products of second cluster are expensive dairy products that could spoil after a short time. Also, second cluster shows us that customers are more willing to purchase more expensive products with high discounts rather than the original-price products at their original cost. On the other hand, the first cluster is definitely the daily basic necessity with low price, low discount rate, and low discount frequency instead of the high sales quantities. It means that the customers seldom put discount into consideration while purchasing these high-demand products. 
Additionally, we have included box plots for these clusters as they depict the mean and spread of product types and total sales for each cluster. As we can see, cluster 1 has a similar number of product types but cluster 3 has a varied range of product types, showcasing the large stores and the small stores. The right box plot actually shows the stores mapped on total sales revenue. Here, we can see that the variance in sales for cluster 1 (large stores) is higher than that of cluster 3 (smaller stores). This could be due to the size of the cluster.


## 3. Next steps

There are a couple of next steps that we can do after completing this segmentation process. First of all, we can collected more data on users and stores - the data that we obtained from the transaction table was more on behavioral data, and we would like to overlap it with demographic data on the customers to understand their age segments, occupation, income levels etc. We could also obtain store level information like location and how much people spend time there on an average. This could help provide more information for better segmentation. Additionally, there is room for improvement when comparing the price in different categories (e.g., comparing the price between one apple with one electronic device), as we would like to be able to only have a single group of product segments, opposed to two. 
Once we have chosen the customer to target to (who), the product to target (what) and the store to target at (where), we can come up with the personalized pricing and promotion (when). This way the approach is holistic and has the highest probability of success. In addition, using these insights, we can successfully design the desired marketing campaign which would boost Pernalonga’s revenue and profits.
